---
layout: post
title: theming my site
---

I started this project a while ago. Then work got crazy, I hit roadblocks, etc. You don't really care and it doesn't really matter. The main blocker I had was theming. I was a designer years ago so while I always value functionality over design, I still want things to look as nice as they can. So where does that leave a full stack dev who's been working in Node for the past year? Frustrated. I didn't want something over designed or under designed and most of all it had to work... responsive, etc. So I stopped working on this whole blog thing for a couple months.

<!--br-->

Fast forward to yesterday. I had some free time and started looking at what was out there in terms of Jekyll themes and that's when I found [Layon](http://lanyon.getpoole.com/). If you clicked on that link, you were probably momentarily confused. Yes, it's basically the same site&mdash;content aside, but it was exactly what I wanted. A clean, simple theme that was fully responsive. I wanted my site to use blacks and greys for the body text with lots of whitespace. This would allow me to add a crazy accent color and not make the user feel like they're tripping. The accent color for this site is <span class="accent">#675FF5</span>. If you want to learn more about Layon and Poole the demo site has all the information you could want.

So I was done right? Not quite. When I said theming I didn't just mean site theming I also meant code theming. Also known as syntax highlighting. I took about two days working on the TextMate theme I use for Sublime. I even named it and everything. I wanted something similar but did not want to spend that much time on it. Enter [Pygments](http://pygments.org/) and [highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/). Jekyll has built in support for Pygments and while it's great if you using most languages: Ruby, Python, Java, etc. When it comes to JavaScript it just falls short in my opinion; especially server side JS, which is what I'm usually working with. So that's where highlight.js came in. By combining both of these I was able to start with a base theme and build up from there by isolating the pieces I wanted to add. The final result? You can check it out below.

## What My Code Looks Like?

{% highlight js %}
/**
 * Send Email Message
 **/

mailRouter.route('/submit/:toEmail')
  .get(function(req, res, next) {
    var data = {
      from: fromEmail,
      to: req.params.toEmail, 
      subject: 'Hello from Mailgun',
      html: 'Hello, This is not a plain-text email, I wanted to test some spicy Mailgun sauce in NodeJS! <a href="http://0.0.0.0:3030/validate?' + req.params.toEmail + '">Click here to add your email address to a mailing list</a>'
    }

    //Invokes the method to send emails given the above data with the helper library
    mailgun.messages().send(data, function (err, body) {
      if(err) {
        console.log('got an error: ', err);
        return res.render('errors/' + err.status, { error : err});
      } else {
        console.log(body);
        //Here 'submitted.jade' is the view file for this landing page 
        //We pass the variable "email" from the url parameter in an object rendered by Jade
        return res.render('submitted', {email : req.params.toEmail, title: 'Email Sent'});
      }
    });
  });
{% endhighlight %}

Pretty huh?

So theming is done. Now let's get to the good stuff...